(Note: This was specifically written as if it was from the prespective of an in-universe character, rather than a simple informational piece. Because of this, there is something of an expectation of requisite knowledge before you can truly understand what I'm saying here. I apologize for this, I know that having to work to be able to read something is annoying)

I find my current predicament to be quite strange. Frustrating, yes, but strange nevertheless. My hindrances are not ones of Shards, but of common men. Perhaps that's what makes my inability to escape them so frustrating.

But I am a scholar at heart. Indeed, not being able to communicate with my fellow scholars has proven to be a... pragmatic frustration. Without that communication, verifying my findings becomes impossible, and finding information that I reference for current theories is difficult. 

The communal Coppermind mentions Atium a lot. And what's frustrating is how wrong it is. But, what's even more frustrating is how wrong *we* were. Looking back through the histories, back to just days before Harmony was created, and you'll find something strange: Atium mistings. Now, those of you who have studied under Khriss in the last, oh, 100 or so years will know that Atium is a Godmetal, created by the Shard Ruin. Godmetals don't work the same way other metals do. There aren't supposed to be Atium mistings. We know that Lerasium can be burned by anyone, and, if we assume that Godmetals have internal consistency (even though they aren't consistent with Peroidic Metals), that would mean that anyone should be able to burn Atium too. It most certainly should mean that there aren't Atium mistings, who can only burn Atium and none of the other metals.

Indeed, it appears that someone was able to solve this mystery, as, if you delve deep into the Coppermind sources, you'll find that Atium mistings aren't actually Atium mistings, they're Electrum mistings. The "Atium" that they were burning was actually Electrum mixed with Atium. The fact that they thought they were Atium mistings can probably be chalked up to them burning Atium and then not bothering to check the other metals. Really, the only metals that were probably being checked were the 8 lower metals, and Atium. None of the other Higher metals that had been discovered at the time, like Gold, Malatium (which I'll get to in a minute), Electrum, Aluminum, and Duralumin, would have been useful for mistings. What's interesting about this is that it has some implications in terms of how mistings were Snapping during the days before Harmony.

Again, look back through the histories to the time right before Harmony. People were Snapping through the power of the Mists themselves. People would go out into them. Those who got sick would end up Snapping, becoming a misting. Those who got sick the longest ended up being Atium mistings. If we look at this now, through our current metallic knowledge, those people who got sick the longest were actually Electrum mistings.

Perhaps Preservation knew that Electrum mistings could also burn Atium, and thus made them sick longer as a sign. If the Atium mistings had decided to check the other metals, they would have noticed that they could burn Electrum as well. 

This can also explain away Cadmium and Bendalloy mistings. Cadmium and Bendalloy both weren't discovered back before Harmony, so there *should* have been some people who Snapped but couldn't burn any of the metals. Under the assumption that only the lesser metals were being checked (And anyone who got sick the longest would have been "known" to be Atium mistings), then it makes sense. Most of the Higher metals weren't being checked, and people knew that there were two Enhancement metals that hadn't meen found yet, so if you Snapped and couldn't burn any of the lesser metals, AND you didn't get sick for a long amount of time (meaning that they didn't need to check for Atium), then the assumption was that you're either a misting for one of the other Higher metals, or you're a misting for one of the undiscovered metals. 

So, what are the implications? Well, first of all, if you're a misting for one of the 16 Periodic Metals, and you can find a way to alloy that metal with a Godmetal, you should probably be able to burn that too. Of course, the obvious example of this is the one we just talked about, with Electrum mistings being able to burn the Atium-Electrum alloy that everyone Pre-Harmony just called "Atium," but there is at least another example of this: Malatium. Just like "Atium" is an Atium-Electrum alloy, Malatium is a Atium-Gold alloy. If, as we assumed earlier, Godmetals follow some internally consistent logic, that means that Gold mistings should be able to burn Malatium too. This also means that there might be ways to alloy Lerasium or even... Tanavastium and the other Godmetals? I find the concept of someone eating an Honorblade very funny, but... it could be possible. 

Actually, Khriss has confirmed some of this. If you take a look at their most recent versions of the Scadrial Ars Arcanum, you'll find that they mention that alloying Atium or Lerasium with each of the original 16 metals will create a new metal, thus creating two more sets of 16 each. Presumably, this means that any misting can burn three metals, one from each set. A Steel misting would be able to burn Steel, Atium-Steel, and Lerasium-Steel. Naturally, Harmony has stopped producing Atium and Lerasium, presumably because of how much destruction Atium-Electrum caused in the days before Harmony ascended. 

Khriss seems to believe that this general idea applies to Ferrings as well. An Electrum Ferring should be able to use an Atium-Electrum metalmind as well. 

Here's another important implication: Pure Atium should be burnable by anyone, just like pure Lerasium. I still don't know how this plays with other Godmetals like Tanavastium, but it might have some implications. Silverlight, if you're reading this, see what it might mean. 

If we choose to play analogies, then maybe pure Atium and Lerasium have Feruchemical uses? We know that they both have Hemalurgic uses. 

All this leaves one question: What *does* pure Atium do, when burned as an Allomantic metal? We don't have a lot to work off of in terms of analogies. When Lerasium is used as a Hemalurgic spike, it steals all abilities, but it is mentioned that this wastes the potential of the Lerasium. What this implies is inclear. Lerasium's Allomantic power is very strong, so perhaps the "loss of potential" refers to the inability to burn the Lerasium. Unfortunately, considering no one has had any access to Lerasium since Ruin and Preservation combined to create Harmony, and considering the fact that we still have no idea what the effects of burning a Hemalurgic Spike using Allomancy are, we can't really draw any conclusions on that. 

For that matter, what does pure Atium/pure Lerasium do when used Feruchemically? Again, as long as Harmony chooses not to create Godmetals, we can't experiment. 

That's beyond the point, however. What is the point is that we know what Lerasium does as a Hemalurgic Spike, which might help us in determining what Atium does as an Allomantic metal. I have two different guesses, with little proof for each:
- Burning Atium steals the Allomantic powers of those around you (either a target whom you must touch, or a general "wave" which steals within a radius)
- Burning Atium simply causes an Allomancer to lose their powers (either a target whom you must touch, or a general "wave" which destroys within a radius)

Actually, on that topic, we don't even know what Lerasium does Allomantically. We know that Lerasium *does* cause people to become Mistborn (Or it turns them into a stronger Mistborn if they are already an Allomancer), but supposedly, this is just a side effect of Lerasium. What is its main effect? It has something to do with altering the burner's sDNA, but we have little information beyond that. 
